# women-in-provenance
<b>Women in Provenance</b>

Project Description<br><br>
Stanford University Archaeology Collections cares for over 80,000 cultural artifacts from around the world, dating from hundreds of thousands of years ago to the late 20th century. The Women in Provenance Project intertwines object and personal biography to explore the formation of this cultural collection. The project will enrich basic provenance records by creating a digital finding aid/interpretive summary of SUAC’s hidden women and the cultural collections they assembled. Through archival and historic research, the project will identify these forgotten agents, research their lives, and interpret their contributions in the context of Stanford’s institutional history and the broader history of archaeology, anthropology, art and design, colonialism, and gender. Alongside its qualitative potential, this critical historical project has potential for an analytical approach to patterning in the aggregated provenance data—the who, where, what, when, and how of our collection’s creation. 
People may know that the university’s collections owe their existence to Jane Stanford’s singular vision for a museum to honor her deceased son. SUAC’s recent inventory project has revealed the surprisingly prominent role other women played in our global collection (see partial list below). In our 125+ year history, these collectors, scholars, donors, and artists developed this treasured cultural resource as we know it. This realization opens up new research potential on the gendering of knowledge within our institution and American museums broadly. It also provides a distinct perspective on the intersectional construction of gender in American society and its relationship to modernity. Women are most often studied as visitors to museums when, in fact, they actively shaped these influential institutions—even if often behind the scenes or with little public credit. Some we know by their own names—many others are only identified by their husbands’ in SUAC records. Either way, reintegrating their contributions will complicate our understanding of institutional authority and counter the perception of museums as monolithic or objective. 
Because provenance is of keen interest to stakeholders and researchers, knowing more about who brought objects to Stanford and how will also support core teaching, outreach, and consultation missions.


License<br>
The content of this project is licensed under the <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-NC-SA 3.0) </a> license. The underlying source code used to format and display that content is licensed under the <a href="https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-3.0/">GNU General Public License v3.0</a> license.
